all right so let's draw the grid okay
the grid is a group that is six meters
by eight meters and the reason it's
being chose chosen and six meters by
eight meters is that those are the
dimensions that fit comfortably along
the width and the length of the site
okay so to draw the grid we first need
to draw our first line which is going to
be number one
along the right hand side edge of the
site okay which is this one yeah really
use the line tool I'm going to make sure
the line is a distinct color so that I
can see the grid and then I'm going to
draw a line just along this right-hand
edge okay when I get to this end I'm
going to wait for the construction line
to appear so that I can extend the line
knowing that it is still parallel to the
grid and once I've drawn a line I am
then going to click the arrow on the
tool box to select the line and stretch
just this end so it remains parallel to
the grid also okay you'll know that it
will remain parallel to the grid when
you click that black dot and the pet
palette comes up and you have the far
right hand side icon of the pet palette
active it's called a stretch icon then
what you need to do is while it's still
highlighted right mouse click then move
and then multiply and then what you want
is a spread at 6 meter intervals as you
change it's one thousand to six thousand
and then go okay and then you pick up
the line by clicking with your right
mouse button and moving in this
direction and as you move in a straight
line so using the orange construction
line as a guide you can then drop down
grid lines two three and four and then
we'll drop one more
five okay watching no we'll just go to
three and four and you know then that
these are spaced evenly at six minute
intervals if you want to measure it
manually you press the M key on your top
on your keyboard and you click from here
to here right so that is 6 meters now
what we want to do then is just draw the
horizontal construction lines by
clicking on the corner top right hand
corner of the site but drawing a line
parallel to the grid and then doing the
same thing by on this side by stretching
out this side here and then right mouse
click move multiply and then a spread of
8 meters and then click using your left
mouse button here so click and then
follow the orange construction line to
make sure it's straight
and as you draw as you move your cursor
down the construction line it will bring
up new lines at 8 meter intervals
ok now you will need a construction line
that is from here to here okay so not
parallel to the grid but running along
this edge like this okay so select that
line by pressing the tab key to select
it okay remember the tab key
remember the tab key allows you to
select items that may be stacked one on
top of each other by cycling through
those items that are stacked okay just
try it with the tab key now what we want
to do is is is stretch out this line
okay so that it's parallel but this
using the stretch is not necessarily
accurate enough because if you notice I
may accidentally stretch it out here or
may accidentally stretching out here
because the guide line is very hard to
see
okay so what I do want to do to ensure
that it continues in this direction
parallel is to use a drafting aid which
you will get from the toolbars and then
drafting out so notice how I haven't
even finished this command but I can
still come up here to collect the
drafting aids toolbox and then I need to
click on this icon which is parallel
constraint and then click on this line
which is what I want to continue to be
parallel to okay so then I can stretch
out this way and also stretch out this
way so I'm clicking on the parallel line
stretch out this way okay so that line
that I've just drawn which is this one
is a - okay all right so then the line
that I need to then next door is number
five which I would then do with the same
procedure and stretch out this using the
drafting aid so I need to click on the
line that I wish to be parallel to click
on the light click on the icon in the
pet palette then click notice how
mercedes keeps coming up on the edge of
this line and then click OK all right
now I've got another line down he which
I need to click and then click
click on the line okay so I need to pull
out here click on this line and it's
from this line and pull out to you yeah
okay so that line that I just drew is
app okay so then the next thing to do
after that would be to label your grid
okay so you label your grid by using the
text okay so I'm going to just click
there and drag out I'm going to use that
it's five and then I drag this to snap
to heat okay so I mean you can use a
combination of letters and the circles
okay
that's up to you
but if you can finish the grid lines and
the text when we come back to the next
video we will attend to embedding some
of these points into the mesh